Let's talk about discounted cash flow or DCF valuation.
So by in this section you will understand DCF and why it's important to valuing a company and how the
entire process works.
OK so let's assume you have $5 today.
OK.
That's literally a $5 bill from Canada.
How awesome is it that we have kids playing hockey on the back of our currency represent.
Love it.
OK so that's $5 today.
All right.
And we have five dollars in 10 years and that's the other side of our $5 bill.
And you know God bless Leonard Nimoy Spock.
Right.
But he actually looked a lot like one of our former prime ministers.
And so a lot of people and you can Google this is pretty funny.
Have been drawing Spock on our money.
Right.
OK cool.
So this is worth five bucks today.
OK so what is Spock $5 worth today.
OK.
What is that five dollar bill in ten years worth today.
So let's let's try to find a valuation for Spock today.
OK so Spock is worth five bucks in ten years right.
That $5 bill.
So what's it worth today.
Well if we assume the interest rate is 7 percent over time just accept it and we can discount Spock
into today's money.
And the way you discount is you divide your dollar figure five bucks in this case by one plus the interest
rate to the power of the number of years you want to discount.
So if we had $5 Spock given to us next year the value of $5 sparked today would be $5 divided by one
plus 7 percent the power of one.
But because we want to get $5 Spock quickly I'm saying this because we want to get $5 Spock.
In today's terms.
Ten years from now today we're going to discount him by 10 years.
OK.
So that's five bucks divided by one plus seven of the power of ten.
And that's discounting that money into today's terms.
So discounting to today is the simple formula.
Right.
So in this case $5 Spock divided by one plus seven percent insures the power of 10.
OK.
So money in the future divided by one plus the interest rate to the power of time the number of years
is how you discount to today.
OK.
Pretty simple.
All right.
Let's file that away.
We'll ignore that for now and let's build the rest of this.
OK.
So how much money do we put in our pocket every single year.
Right.
Well we know that net income minus money we spend on stuff is supposed to be what we put in our pocket
every year.
Right.
So the way it works with companies is net income minus money they spend investing in the company is
how much money they put in their pocket every year.
OK. stay with me on this.
OK.
So net income minus factories and equipment.
Right Stuff you spend in factories and equipment.
Right.
Which is the same thing as saying net income minus capital expenditures to net income modest cap ex
same thing.
Wait for it.
So you take net income and you subtract non-cash stuff and then you deduct what you invested in like
Cap X..
That's called operating cash flow.
So maybe that from a casual statement I bring cash for minus cap x is free cash flow.
Okay.
And so cash in our pocket each year it equals operating cash flow which is the first section of of the
cash flow statement minus CapEx.
Take the first section again of the cash flow statement.
Operating cash flow minus CapEx.
Right.
And that's going to give you cash flow.
And for some reason they actually call it free cash flow.
All right.
So operating cash flow is right here right remember we got that on the linked in cash flow statement
right.
And then you deduct CapEx which is property or plants or equipment.
Right.
Really understand finance don't memorize it understand it and then you remember it.
Okay.
So operating cash flow minus cap x cap their IGA operating cash flow minus cap ex there it is.
That equals free cash flow.
Now you see why we put that at the bottom there.
It's a simple calculation.
Okay.
All right let's stop ignoring the blue box.
OK.
So remember we discounted Spock from 10 years to today.
Well we got to do that with every single year of free capital Burlington as well.
Okay.
And that's how we find out the value of the company.
Right.
So if you take the future cash that any company makes and discounted today that's the value the company
got.
So let's do it.
Let's discounts all those free cash flows to today.
We'll discount that over the number years in the future it is same with every single year.
Right.
There you go.
And this is basically just like the spot example there we go.
We get our dollar amounts.
All right just simple find the math for you here and you can always speed this up or slow it down and
you to me if you wanted to.
All right cool.
Here's a better way to do it though.
Now that you know how to discount free cash flow I wanted to a trick.
This is awesome.
In Excel there is a formula called net present value.
What's the present value of those future cash flows to it.
And you just type in Excel equals NPV right.
Open brackets and Excel is awesome.
It's going to say what's the rate.
Right.
You'll go and click on the rate 7 percent or whatever it is and then what you do is you hit come and
Ill say what cash flows and you'll go and highlight all the cash flows and then hit enter and you've
got discounted cash flow to today.
How awesome is that.
So if we take the net present value right and we put 7 percent there.
Right.
And those are the cash flows right there.
Then we get the same answer and that is cash flow